# Google Cloud Migrations
Source: https://cloud.google.com/architecture/migrations

## Migrate to Google Cloud: Choose your migration path
- Scenarios:
  - From an on premises env
  - From a private hosting env
  - From another cloud provider to Google Cloud
- Path:
  - framework to design and run your migration journey 
  - Use the framework as a baseline against which we can use to assess the migration progress
  - Give guidance that's specific to a particular environment 

## Benefits of establishing a migration framework
- Migration can be a repeatable task
- Phases during migration
  - Assess and discover your workloads
  - Plan and build a foundation.
  - Deploy your workloads.
  - Optimize your environment and workloads.
- Moving from one environment to another is a **challenging task**, so you need to plan and execute your migration carefully. We need to complete tasks such :
  - Creating an inventory
  - Establishing user and service identities
  - Deploying your workloads
  - Otimizing for performance and scalability
- Some scenarios within the documents
  - Migrate VMs with Migrate to VMs
  - Migrate containers to Google Cloud
  - Migrate VMs to containers with Migrate to Containers

## Migrate to Google Cloud: Get started
- We start by defining the environments that are involved in the migration
- An on-prem env: an env where we have full ownership and responsibility. We retain full control over every aspect of the environment, such as cooling, physical security, and hardware maintenance
- Private hosting env such as a colocation
  - We outsource part of the physical infrastructure and its management to an external party
  - This infrastructure is typically shared between customers. 
  - We don't have to manage the physical security and safety services. 
  - Some hosting envs let us manage part of the physical hardware, such as servers, racks, and network devices, while others manage that hardware for you
  - Typically, power and network cabling are provided as a service so we don't have to manage them. 
  - You maintain full control over hypervisors that virtualize physical resources, the virtualized infrastructure that you provision, and workloads that you run on that infrastructure.
- A public cloud env: we don't have to manage the whole resource stack by ourselves
  - We can focus on the aspect of the stack that is most valuable to us. 
  - We don't have to manage the underlying physical infrastructure. 
  - We don't have to manage the resource virtualization hypervisor. 
  - We can build a virtualized infrastructure and can deploy your workloads in this new infra. 
  - We can also buy fully managed services, where you care only about your workloads, handing off the operational burden of managing runtime environments.

| Resources | On-Premise | Private Hosting | Public Cloud
|-|-|-|-|
| Physical security and safety | You | Service Provider | Service Provider|
| Power and network cabling | You | Service Provider | Service Provider |
| Hardware (incl. maintenance) | You | Depends on service provider | Service Provider |
| Virtualization platform | You | You | Service Provider |
| App resources | You | You | You (eventually leveraging fully managed services) |

- Define your starting and target envs
- After that, we define the workload types and the related operational processes that are in scope for the migration. 
- Two types of workloads and operations
  - Legacy
    - Developed without any consideration for cloud environments. 
    - These workloads and operations can be difficult to modify and expensive to run and maintain
    - They usually don't support any type of scalability.
  - cloud-native
    - Natively scalable, portable, available, and secure. 
    - The workloads and operations can help increase developer productivity and agility, 
    - Developers can focus on the actual workloads, rather than spending effort to manage development and runtime environments, or dealing with manual and cumbersome deployment processes
    - Google Cloud is responsible for the physical security and the security of the infrastructure, while you're responsible for the security of the workloads you deploy to the infrastructure (shared responsibility model)

- Some situations:
  - On-premises or private hosting environment with legacy workloads and operations.
  - On-premises or private hosting environment with cloud-native workloads and operations.
  - Public cloud or private hosting environment with legacy workloads and operations.
  - Public cloud or private hosting environment with cloud-native workloads and operations.

- Types of migrations
  - Lift and shift
  - Improve and move
  - Remove and replace (sometimes called rip and replace)
